Minimum Viable Product
Team Proctors
6 February 2022


The minimum viable product (MVP) will be a web-based application hosted using Microsoft Azure. Azure will be linked to our project’s GitHub repository. The use of Azure will also give the team the availability to implement a CI/CD system where the code in the underlying GitHub repository can be updated and deployed quickly and easily.  CI/CD will be used by creating two GitHub branches, each linked to its own Azure static web page. The first web page will be linked to the testing branch. The second web page will be linked to the master branch for deployment. This will be useful in finding bugs or other build issues during the early phases of deployment. CD will also be implemented through Azure as we update the repositories, the web pages will also become updated.

Our web quiz application will provide a user interface that will contain a selection of several different quizzes for the user to take. Each quiz will be laid out in a similar format. It is important that the user experience at this stage is consistent across all quizzes. A lineup of different quizzes gives users the chance to find a quiz they want to take. Ideally, the more quizzes that can be offered the better, but for the purposes of building an MVP, a small number should suffice. Quizzes will have descriptive names that give the user a clear idea of the content in each quiz.

In order for the web application to be minimally viable, the product must be able to hold/store users' answers in order for these answers to be checked against the correct answers at the end of the quiz.At the conclusion of the quiz, the user’s score will be displayed to them in a nice format, informing them which questions they got wrong (without giving away the correct answer). This design gives the consumer the ability to take a quiz and test their knowledge in a straightforward and reliable manner. Overall, we want the MVP to give the user a clear understanding of the site’s purpose as well as give them a pain free user experience. The Quiz Master MVP will do just that. A user will select a quiz, answer questions, and get the results. The basic functionality of a quiz site will be present in the initial product.

In terms of the technology that will be used to build the MVP, the interface will be constructed using HTML/CSS and JavaScript. The MVP site should look professional and clean; giving users a clear idea of what they can do and what capabilities the site has. This can be done with HTML/CSS and JavaScript. While the final product will incorporate technologies such as the MERN stack to make the site more efficient and interactive, the MVP will keep it relatively simple.

Additionally, the MVP will take a different approach to store question/answer data than the final Quiz Master product. The final product will use MongoDB to store questions and answers. Rather than spend the time setting up a database for the questions, the MVP will access questions stored in a text file or hard coded into a data structure like an array or map/dictionary. While this may not be the most efficient way to access question banks, the MVP’s primary focus will be on the interface portion of the site, not how quizzes are accessed or stored on the backend. The team will be able to better spend its time developing the front end of the site if the question banks are stored in as simple a manner as possible. Down the road, the questions will be moved to a database. This will require the user interface code to be tweaked to accommodate calls to the database, but there should be enough time between when the MVP is made and when the database is created to get a clear vision of the direction the product will take.
